Visual Studio Code:
Visual Studio is an Advanced Integrated Development Enterprise exclusively developed the Microsoft Corporation in the year 2000. 
It is actively used to develop Computer programs, Websites, Desktop Applications, Mobile Applications, Games and much more
 Some popular languages that are supported by Visual Studio are Visual Basics, C-Programming Language, C++ Programming Language, C# Programming Language, Python, JavaScript.
Visual studio code tools:
Open Tabs Browser-It enlists all the properties available for classes, objects, web pages.
Solution Explorer-Solution Explorer manages and browses the files in a solution.
Team Explorer-Team Explorer Integrates the Axure DevOps Into the VS IDE.
Data Explorer-Data Explorer manages MS SQL databases and instances.
Some of shortcuts in visual studio code:
 Line Comment- Ctrl+/
 Block Comment-Ctrl+Shift+/
 Run Config- Ctrl+Shift+Alt+R
 Run Build- Ctrl+Shift+F5
 Debug- Alt+F5
Dot Net :
NET stands for Network Enabled Technology (Internet). In .NET, dot (.) refers to Object-Oriented, and NET refers to the internet. 
So, the complete .NET means through Object-Oriented we can implement internet-based applications.
it is a framework
.NET is a free, cross-platform, open-source developer platform for building many different types of applications
Framework:
A framework is a software. Or you can say a framework is a collection of many small technologies integrated together to develop applications that can be executed anywhere.
 
Dot NET provides BCL and CLR
BCL-Base class Libraries-Base Class Libraries (BCL) is designed by Microsoft. Without BCL we can’t write any code in .NET. So, BCL is also known as the basic building block of .NET Programs. 
These are installed into the machine when we installed the .NET framework. BCL contains pre-defined classes and these classes are used for the purpose of application development.
CLR-common language runtime-CLR stands for Common Language Runtime and it is the core component under the .NET framework 
which is responsible for converting the MSIL (Microsoft Intermediate Language) code into native code.
JIT-it stands for the Just-in-Time compiler. It is the component of CLR that is responsible for converting MSIL code into Native Code.
